Waste: Caution
"963 million people across the world are hungry," yet people continue to throw out edible food ("World"). In the United States, most people use the word "hungry" when the clock ticks twelve and it is lunchtime; however, this is not the case for many. The dictionary defines the hunger that millions of people experience as a "painful sensation or state of weakness caused by the need of food" ("Hunger Definition"). Furthermore, this is not a simple stomachache; people die from such pain and weakness. This paper will discuss the domestic and worldwide problem of hunger, show how much people actually waste, and discuss how one can take action to help in their own country. In order to assist in relieving hunger, the citizens of the United States must become aware of the issue's severity level and act by being more cautious of their waste.
The United States is one of the wealthiest countries in the world, but still experiences hunger issues. According to United States Department of Agriculture reasearch, "4. 0 percent of U.S. households experience hunger. 11. 1 million people, including 430 thousand children, live in these homes" ("Hunger"). Most people only consider hunger issues occuring in other countries, but these shocking statistics show that the U.S. has problems as well. The Americans who live in hunger omit meals when they have no other choice, due to financial problems, and sometimes go a whole day without eating. When they are fortunate enough to get a meal, it is moderately small ("Hunger"). An incentive for a U.S. citizen to conserve and donate food is that one cannot only help the world problem of hunger, but their own country, a neighbor, or a familiar face.
Although the statistics regarding the amount of hunger-pladues Americans is shockingly high, on a global scale hunger statistics are drastically elevated. The 11. 1 million people living with hunger in the U.S. hardly constitutes a dent in the 963 million people living with hunger worldwide. The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) organized a study to determine how world hunger takes childrens' lives. The study revealed knowledge that in 2006 "about 9. 7 million children died before they reached their fifth birthday" (Bread.org). Not only did these children die far too young, they also lived their lives suffering from hunger and malnurishment. These children experienced weakness, a side effect of hunger, which is not a common characteristic of a healthy child. Being in a state of weakeness affects one's childhood play, which healthy people take for granted. Envision being hungry all of the time, scavenging for food, and not knowing when and where the next meal will come from. Americans need to realize that they are a part of the world problem of hunger, and have a moral obligation to help prevent it. A portion of the 9. 7 million children whose lives were taken by hunger were American children. Taking action now, can help prevent America's portion of the statistic from growing larger. The children and adults getting plagued with hunger in America are the people who U.S. citizens can aid directly in their daily lives, if they are motivated by information.
Uninformed U.S. citizens throw away food that is perfectly edible, which could have been consumed by another if donated or simply not piled on one's plate. In Lars Eighner's article, "On Dumpster Diving," he illustrates, by personal experience, that someone can literally live off what is thrown in the garbage (6). His authoritive article informs readers on the ways to analyze certain foods, for edible quality, to keep healthy while eating waste. Although Lars lived off dumpster diving for many years, he is now fortunate enough to recognize and admit that it is not the healthiest way to live (7). However, the fact that someone really can live off of dumpster diving is astounding. Simply thinking about how much edible food must be in the garbage, in order to give adaquate amounts of food to dumpster divers, is nauseating. Americans need to become aware of their massive amounts of waste and start taking ethical responsibility to conserve edible food for the hungry.
The majority of U.S. citizens are not living with hunger; therefore, they do not see hunger as an issue that needs to be relieved. Few set aside time to research statistics of domestic issues, and in return merely see hunger as a minimal problem. Statistics overshadow this thought, because they show that hunger is a sufficient problem in need of attention and combat. Because of the general apathy towards the problem, everyone who has the knowledge of hunger issues must act in their daily lives to help. Keeping leftover food for another meal or generously giving it to the homeless is something one can do in their daily lives. In addition, they must share their knowledge with their loved ones and peers. They can also inform strangers, but may find that they can more effectively influence people they know. Essentially, the process of helping the problem starts with informing others of it. This step can be as simple as saying to another, "Someone who is hungry could utilize those canned foods that have been in your pantry for over a year." Another tactic to share information with more credibility is by sharing statistics. One can share statistics verbally, or in writing. Talking with a few peers is good, but writing an article or creating posters, brochures, and flyers is more efficient. A poster with a statistic, such as "Every day, almost 16,000 children die from hunger-related causes--one child every five seconds," on it will influence many (Black 2226-2234). The example statistic, or one expressing how much food is wasted, will shock passerbyers and will allow them to see the bigger picture, by putting the numbers into timely matter. Strategically placing such posters in populated locations will help influence more. Placing such posters in a dining area will help to get the attention that the domestic hunger problem needs.
Some university dining services support this cause. Northern Arizona University and Colorado State University are two such universities that are taking responsibility. Each university has been applying an innovative approache to help prevent waste. Both of these universities have adopted the concept of "trayless" dining, and find that it works wonderfully. With trayless dining, students are less liable to pile excess amounts of food on their trays. In addition, trayless dining prevents water and soap waste from washing the trays, and plastic waste from manufactuing trays. Some students believe that going trayless has been an inconvenience to them, because they generally have to make a few trips from the service counters to their table and back. However, with more experience and strategizing in trayless dining one can learn how to get their beverage, meal, and silverware all in one trip. In any case, the domestic hunger problem is a larger issue that pertains to society as a whole, rather than the microscophic problem of not being capable to get one's full meal in one trip. Regardless of what such students believe, universities that become trayless operations, and make endeavors each day to minimize their waste are taking the social responsibility that everyone should make the effort to do ("Social"). Again, for people to become waste cautious they need to be informed. In addition, people need to be motivated to eat what they put on their plate, and urge to take only what they actually can eat, because conserved food can be donated. Information will motivate the unmotivated to conserve.
NAU became informed when they organized a project for Earth Day and were motivated to start being more waste cautious. Casey Fisher, a director in campus dining, believes that NAU implemented the concept after receiving the revealing results of Waste Audit 08, which was held on April 22, 2008, because they caused an awareness of edible food waste. During the audit, campus dining collected a total of 252. 2 pounds of waste, 224. 2 pounds of which was edible. Only 28 pounds of the total waste was not edible, consisiting of mostly paper waste and fruit peel waste. Campus dining audited the student All-You-Can-Eat Hot Spot location for only 3 hours of lunch and these numbers were uncovered. During that day's lunch period, the Hot Spot served appoximately 701 customers. This venue serves lunch 224. 5 days in the academic year, which would make the appoximate amount of waste per year to be 56,618. 9 pounds. That number is merely for the lunchtime waste of one year, at one location alone. Visualize how many digits the number of multiple venues consists of. Moreover, Casey Fisher believes that students were not practicing their normal waste habits, because they knew waste cautious people were watching them. The waste cautious people, from dining services, were personally recieveing students' trays from them. Students would hand trays to them with apologetic statements: "I tried to eat it all."
Casey Fisher's claim brings the solution to the table: Act, always, as if a waste cautious person or a starving human being is watching your every move. It will be tough to throw away edible food with the image of a starving human being sitting, in pain, across the way. Furthermore, one must strive to be that waste cautious person who watches over people and shares knowledge of hunger issues. This world is hungry, and every little piece of food saved and donated has the potential to save a life.
Works Cited
Black, Robert, Morris, Saul, & Jennifer Bryce. "Where and Why Are 10 Million Children Dying Every Year?" The Lancet 361:2226-2234. 2003.
Eighner, Lars. "On Dumpster Diving". The Threepenny Review. No. 47 (Autumn,1991). pp. 6-8.
"Hunger definition | Dictionary.com." Dictionary.com. 2009. 29 Mar. 2009 .
"Hunger Persists In The U.S." Hunger Facts: Domestic. Ed. Bread For The World. 2007. 26 Mar. 2009 .
Interview. March 26. 2009. 10: 00 AM. Casey Fisher. Marketing Director. Campus Dining. Northern Arizona University
"Social Responsibility." Campus Dining. Ed. NAU. 29 Mar. 2009 .
"World Hunger and Poverty: How They Fit Together." Hunger Facts: International. Ed. Bread For The World. 2007. 26 Mar. 2009 .
Armida Reddig's Short Argumentive Essay Outline
Topic: waste
Rough Thesis: In order to assist in relieving hunger, the citizens of the United States must become aware of the horridness of it all and act by being more cautious of their waste.
I. Problem
a. US (one of the well-off countries)
i. According to USDA reasearch,"4. 0 percent of U.S. households experience hunger. Some people in these households frequently skip meals or eat too little, sometimes going without food for a whole day. 11. 1 million people, including 430 thousand children, live in these homes" (Bread.org).
b. world
i. UNICEF studies showed that "In 2006, about 9. 7 million children died before they reached their fifth birthday. Almost all of these deaths occured in developing countries, 4/5 of them in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, the two regions that also suffer from the highest rates of hunger and malnutrition" (bread.org)
II. Dumpster Diving
a. People live off of what we throw away
III. Illustration
a. "Every day, almost 16,000 children die from hunger-related causes--one child every five seconds" (Black 2226-2234).
IV. Solution(s)
a. Trayless dining
i. Saves food, water, soap, and plastic
ii. Nessesary for people not to pile plates
b. Waste audit
V. Action
a. Eat what you put on your plate
Works Cited
Black, Robert, Morris, Saul, & Jennifer Bryce. "Where and Why Are 10 Million Children Dying Every Year?" The Lancet 361:2226-2234. 2003.
Eighner, Lars. "On Dumpster Diving". The Threepenny Review. No. 47 (Autumn,1991). pp. 6-8.
"Hunger definition Dictionary.com." Dictionary.com. 2009. 29 Mar. 2009 .
"Hunger Persists In The U.S." Hunger Facts: Domestic. Ed. Bread For The World. 2007. 26 Mar. 2009 .
Interview. March 26. 2009. 10: 00 AM. Casey Fisher. Marketing Director. Campus Dining. Northern Arizona University
"Social Responsibility." Campus Dining. Ed. NAU. 29 Mar. 2009 .
"World Hunger and Poverty: How They Fit Together." Hunger Facts: International. Ed. Bread For The World. 2007. 26 Mar. 2009 .
To Extend:
Anecdote of eating at hotspot with friend(food stamps)
"About malnutrition information" (what illness malnutrition causes)
Other countries charge for trash
visuals
Presentation
Intro:
Thesis: In order to assist in relieving hunger, the citizens of the United States must become aware of the issue's severity level and act by being more cautious of their waste.
Supporting evidence:
USA According to United States Department of Agriculture reasearch, "4. 0 percent of U.S. households experience hunger. 11. 1 million people, including 430 thousand children, live in these homes" ("Hunger"). Most people only consider hunger issues occuring in other countries, but these shocking statistics show that the U.S. has problems also. The Americans who live in hunger omit meals when they have no other choice, due to financial problems, and sometimes go a whole day without eating. When they are fortunate enough to get a meal, it is moderately small ("Hunger"). Also, The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) organized a study in the year of 2006 to determine how world hunger affects children's lives. The study revealed knowledge that "about 9. 7 million children died before they reached their fifth birthday" that year (Bread.org).
Solutions: Becoming informed, and informing others.
Waste Audit 08 at NAU During the audit, campus dining collected a total of 252. 2 pounds of waste, 224. 2 pounds of which was edible. Only 28 pounds of the total waste was not edible, consisiting of mostly paper waste and fruit peel waste. Campus dining audited the student All-You-Can-Eat Hot Spot location for only 3 hours of lunch and these numbers were uncovered. This venue serves lunch 224. 5 days in the academic year, which would make the appoximate amount of waste per year to be 56,618. 9 pounds for the Hotspot alone! No wonder why some people can live off of dumpster diving, like the article we read earlier this semester. = Trayless Dinning.
Counterarguments:
Some people do not care about other people starving, as long as they arent. They should care about how much they waste though. Food is expensive, and to throw away edible food is like throwing away money. Also, people need to be motivated to be waste cautious. It does take effort, but I believe with more people becoming informed more people will make that effort.
Closing statement:
I hope you will stive to become informed, and inform your peers. Motivate yourself and your peers to eat what you put on your plate, because every little piece of food saved has the potential to save a life.
