As the society grown, people are more focusing on the money, which is the development of the world economy. In personal opinion, the reason why this happen is because the highly rising of the technology of the countries cost lots of money, and the expense of the society lead the market price increasing, which means that the cost on people's life has grown too. Therefore, more and more people want to make more money, this is the reason why the student of learning business and economic in university have been increasing a lot. Thus, there are some questions at this point, which are what is economic, how the economic could help people in their life, and why are we studying the economic?
Research Question:
What is economic in general?
Mykhailenko Daria H. (2018). Economic Efficiency: Definition, Analysis of Concepts. Problemi Ekonomiki, 2(36), 159-163.
Mykhailenko Daria H. the author of "Economic Efficiency: Definition, Analysis of Concepts" said that the economic is related with the efficiency, and he define that there is some connection between the efficiency but at the same time the relate between research result and economic efficiency has a certain crisis.
The audience of this journal are scholars and practitioners who interested in investigating the relationship between economic and efficiency. This journal includes lots of technical term and some of the concept is hard to understand if ones are not the professional person in economic area.
This journal is about the perspectives of logical schools on the idea of "effectiveness," to be more specific is the big plus of the market competition of countries is depending on the price, which is lower than the general equilibrium. Also, another essential element is the quantity and quality of the goods. through changing the cost of the products and stay the same quantity or flip it around is a critical skill for business for making money. The efficiency is related to the ratio between the values and net cost; also, the efficiency has the bond between the individualized evaluation and abstract, which became the last outcome of the treatment.
This journal is not exactly answering the question of what is economic in general, however, it gives some opinion about one of the important elements in economic area. At the same time, it explains the relationship between the economic and the efficiency that people are always using in the market. As a economic student, this journal helps me a lot on understanding the market rules in business world.
The Library of Economics and Liberty (n.d.) What Is Economics? Retrieved from https:__www.econlib.org_library_Topics_College_whatiseconomics.html
There is no exact author of this article, and the audience of this article is for the people who want to know some information of what is economic with no prior knowledge about business economic. This article uses simplified language explain the definition of the economic to the audience.
This acritical is about the basic information of the economic, which is telling us that the economic is about making choices. By using examples to claim that the choice that people make are tend to maximize the profit receive. Also, in this article, it says that the economic is not only for making money, but it is not only way of using economic, the economic is more like to comparing different choices or alternatives and find the best for yourself. Economic could be used in many jobs and decisions making.
In personal opinion, this article explains my question perfectly. According the article, we could know the general definition of the economic and at the same time, by relating our real life to understanding the concept of the economic.
American Economic Association (2019) what is economics? Retrieved from https:__www.aeaweb.org_resources_students_what-is-economics
This is the article that talk about what is economic, and also linked the things that economists do and why people study economic. The author of this article is undefined, but this is a good resource for people who are considering of learning economic or not. Moreover, give us some information of what do economists do. According this article, we could know more details about the economic area.
Same as the last website, this web article provides multiple information of being economists and the benefit of studying in economic. The introduction of this article is telling us that the economic is the knowledge that depending on the historical trends, making prediction about the coming years. Which means that economic is the subject that help people to avoid mistakes that people made in the past for the future.
Conclusion
In general, some resources explain the term economic very well, some journal is more tend to explain the word in academic way. Both of the definition are helpful for the people who want to study economic or the people who already learning this course. Personally, as a student who are taking the economic lecture, I found that the economic is not a easy curriculum. However, I do think that economic could help students to make decision more carefully and properly, which is important for students and society.
